## Q What is `npm`?

A: npm is like a magic toolbox for JavaScript programmers. It helps them find and use ready-made pieces of code (packages) made by other people. These packages can do all sorts of things, like adding special features to websites or making it easier to write code. With npm, programmers can easily get these packages and use them in their own projects without having to build everything from scratch. It's like borrowing tools instead of making them all by yourself.

## Q What is a `bundler`?

A: A `bundler` is a tool used in web development to combine multiple separate files, such as JavaScript, CSS, and images, into a smaller number of optimized files. These optimized files, known as bundles, are designed to be more efficient for browsers to load, improving the performance of web applications.

- Bundlers help manage dependencies between files, ensuring that they are included in the correct order and that any redundant code is eliminated. This process not only speeds up the loading of web pages but also aids in organizing and maintaining a project's codebase.
- In addition to bundling, many modern bundlers offer features like minification (removing unnecessary characters to make files smaller), transpilation (converting newer code syntax to older versions for wider compatibility), and code splitting (breaking code into smaller chunks to load only what's needed for each page).

Webpack, Parcel, and Rollup are examples of popular bundlers used in web development.

## Q What's `Webpack`? Why do we need it?

A: Webpack is a bundler tool that bundles your web project's files together. It optimizes and organizes JavaScript, CSS, images, and more, making them load faster for websites. It manages file dependencies, converts code for different browsers, and uses plugins to enhance performance. This tool also supports splitting code into smaller parts, loading only what's needed. For development, it offers a server that automatically updates changes. In a nutshell, Webpack streamlines web development by packaging, optimizing, and simplifying the way files are delivered to browsers.

## Q How does `Webpack convert code for different browsers`?

A: `Webpack` doesn't directly convert code for various browsers, but it works with tools like Babel. `Babel`, integrated into the Webpack setup, transforms modern JavaScript into versions that older browsers can understand. Webpack's configuration instructs it to use a "loader" for Babel, which processes JavaScript files through Babel's transformations based on defined rules. The resulting code, now compatible with different browsers, is bundled by Webpack and ready for deployment. This approach ensures wider browser compatibility by making modern code usable for users with varying browser versions.

## Q What is `Babel`?

A: `Babel` is a widely used open-source JavaScript compiler. Its primary purpose is to transform modern JavaScript code, which might use the latest language features and syntax (ES6+, ES7, etc.), into an older version that is compatible with older browsers and environments that don't support those newer features.

Babel achieves this by parsing your modern JavaScript code, applying transformations based on specified rules, and generating equivalent code in an older syntax. This process is commonly known as **transpilation**.

## Q What is `Parcel`?

A: `Parcel` is an open-source web application bundler that simplifies the process of building and packaging web projects. Unlike Webpack, it offers a zero-config setup, automatically handling various file types without complex configurations. With built-in asset handling, a fast development server, and automatic dependency resolution, Parcel streamlines web development. It's particularly suited for smaller projects or developers looking for an easy-to-use bundling solution that requires minimal setup.

## Q What is the `difference between Webpack and Parcel`?

A: `Webpack` and `Parcel` are both tools used for bundling and managing assets in web development, but they have some differences in terms of configuration, features, and use cases:
| Feature | **`Webpack`** | **`Parcel`** |
|---|---|---|
| **`Configuration`** | Highly configurable (webpack.config.js) | Zero-config |
| **`Ease of Use`** | Complex setup, steep learning curve | Simple and easy to use |
| **`Features`** | Advanced features, code splitting, dynamic imports | Built-in features, fast development server |
| **`Customization`** | Highly customizable | Less customizable |
| **`Use Cases`** | Large projects, complex build processes | Small to medium projects, rapid development |

Webpack offers more control and customization, while Parcel prioritizes simplicity and speed.

## Q What is `.parcel-cache`?

A: The .parcel-cache directory is created by the Parcel bundler when it processes and builds your web project. It serves as a cache storage location to optimize the performance of subsequent builds.

- When you run Parcel to bundle your project, it analyzes your source files, applies transformations (like minification and code splitting), and generates output files in a distribution directory. The .parcel-cache directory stores intermediate files, cached assets, and compiled code from previous builds. This helps to speed up future builds by reusing previously processed content, as opposed to reprocessing everything from scratch.
- The cache directory is automatically managed by Parcel, and you generally don't need to interact with it directly. However, in case you encounter any issues with your builds, clearing the cache can sometimes resolve certain problems.
- Remember that clearing the cache might lead to slightly longer build times for the first build after cache deletion, but subsequent builds should benefit from improved performance due to the cached data.

## Q What is `npx`?

A: `npx` is a command-line tool that comes with npm (Node Package Manager) and is used to run Node.js packages. It's often used to execute packages that are not globally installed on your system. The primary purpose of npx is to make it easier to run packages without having to install them globally or clutter your project's dependencies.

### Install Parcel (Optional):

If you haven't already installed Parcel globally or locally in your project, you can skip this step. When using npx, you don't need to have Parcel installed globally or listed as a dependency in your package.json.

### Run Parcel with npx:

Open your terminal and navigate to the root directory of your project.
Run the following command using npx and specify parcel as the package name:

```
npx parcel index.html
```

Replace index.html with the entry file of your project, which is the HTML file that serves as the starting point for your application.

### Parcel Processing:

Parcel will start processing your project, bundling and optimizing your files. It will automatically detect dependencies and apply the necessary transformations.

### View the Result:

Once Parcel has finished bundling your project, it will provide you with a local development server address (usually `http://localhost:1234` by default). Open this address in your web browser to see your bundled application.

## Differnce between `npm` and `npx`?

A:
| Feature | **`npm`** | **`npx`** |
|---|---|---|
| **`Purpose`** | Manage packages (install, uninstall, update) | Execute packages directly |
| **`Command Structure`** | npm <command> <package> | npx <package> <command> |
| **`Example`** | npm install react | npx create-react-app my-app |
| **`Dependency Management`** | Installs and manages dependencies | Executes packages without installation |
| **`Use Cases`** | Managing project dependencies, publishing packages | Running scripts, testing tools, code generators |

**`When you run npm run <script>, npm directly executes the script defined in the scripts section of your package.json file. This process doesn't involve invoking npx.`**

## Q What is the difference between `devDependencies`, `peerDependencies` and `dependencies`?

A:

| Feature                         | **`dependencies`**                        | **`devDependencies`**                | **`peerDependencies`**`                           |
| ------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------- |
| `Purpose`                       | Required by the application in production | Required for development and testing | Expected to be installed by the consuming project |
| `Installation`                  | Automatic with `npm install`              | Automatic with`npm install`          | Manual installation required                      |
| `Inclusion in production build` | Included                                  | Excluded                             | Not included                                      |
| `Examples`                      | React, Redux, Axios                       | Jest, Babel, ESLint                  | React, Vue, Angular (for a component library)     |

The distinction between dependencies and devDependencies allows you to separate what's essential for your application to function (production) from what's necessary for your development workflow

**`Peer Dependencies`**

- it's expected that the consuming project (the host) already has the peer dependency installed.
- `Compatibility check:` npm will check if the peer dependencies are installed in the consuming project and throw an error if they are missing.
- `Example:` A React component library might have React as a peer dependency, indicating it's designed to work with React and expecting the consuming project to have React installed.

## Q What is `Tree Shaking`?

A: `Tree shaking` is a technique used in modern JavaScript build tools to eliminate unused code from your final bundle. It's a process that helps optimize the size of your JavaScript bundles, resulting in smaller file sizes and faster loading times for your web applications. The term "tree shaking" comes from the idea of "shaking out" or removing dead branches from a tree. In the context of code, it refers to identifying and removing parts of your codebase that are never used or referenced, effectively pruning away unnecessary portions.

- During the build process, the tool (like Webpack, Parcel) analyzes your JavaScript code and its dependencies, creating a "dependency graph" that represents the relationships between different modules.

## Q What is `Hot Module Replacement`?

A: `HMR` is a technique that allows developers to make changes to their codebase and see those changes instantly reflected in the running application without requiring a full page refresh or a manual reload of the browser.

`Change Detection`: When you make changes to your code (such as modifying a JavaScript file or updating a CSS style), the HMR system detects these changes.

`Patch and Apply`: Instead of reloading the entire page or application, HMR takes the modified module (JavaScript, CSS, or other assets) and patches the changes into the running application in real-time.

`Preserve State`: HMR is designed to preserve the application's current state. This means that if you're in the middle of a certain interaction or have some data stored in memory, those states will remain intact even after applying the code changes.

`Selective Updates`: HMR is capable of updating only the changed modules, which helps in reducing the need for a full page reload and speeds up the development process.

## Q Does Parcel bundler have HMR?

A: Parcel is another popular bundler that comes with built-in Hot Module Replacement (HMR) functionality. Parcel is designed to be a zero-config bundler, which means you can set up a project without needing an extensive configuration file like you might with Webpack.
To use HMR with Parcel, you don't need to do any additional setup. It's enabled by default when you run the development server.

Parcel will automatically detect your application's entry point and set up the development server with HMR enabled. When you make changes to your React components, styles, or other assets, Parcel will apply those changes in real-time without requiring a full page reload.

## Q List down some `superpowers of Parcel`

A:

- Dev Build
- Local Server
- Hot Module Replacement (HMR)
- File Watching Algorith - written in C++
- Zero Config
- Caching - Faster builds
- Image Optimization
- Minification
- Compression
- Code Splitting
- Tree Shaking - remove unused code
- Bundling
- Diffrential Bundling - support for older browsers
- Content Hashing
- Diagnostics
- Error Handling
- HTTPs
- Different dev and production bundles

## Q What is `.gitignore`? What should `we add` and `not add` into it?

A: `.gitignore` is a configuration file used in Git repositories to specify which files and directories should be ignored by the version control system. This file helps prevent certain files or types of files from being tracked by Git, which is particularly useful for excluding files that are generated during the development process, contain sensitive information, or are not relevant to the project's version history.

### What to Add to .gitignore:

- Generated Files: Files that are generated during the build process, such as compiled code, transpiled JavaScript, or build artifacts.
- Dependencies: Node.js node_modules directory, Python **pycache** directories, and other dependency folders.
- Sensitive Information: Configuration files that contain sensitive data like API keys, credentials, or passwords.
- Logs and Reports: Log files, error reports, or debug outputs.
- Output Files: Any files that are generated from source files, like transpiled JavaScript, minified CSS, or compressed images.
- Temporary Files
-

```
# Ignore node_modules directory
node_modules/

# Ignore build artifacts
dist/
build/
```

### What Not to Add to .gitignore:

- Source Code
- Configuration Templates (e.g., `config.example.json`)
- Documentation (e.g., `README.md`)
- Build Files Needed for Deployment

## Q What is `transitive dependency`?

A. A transitive dependency is an indirect dependency relationship between software components.
Imagine a scenario where your project directly depends on library A. Library A, in turn, depends on library B. This makes library B a transitive dependency for your project.

```
Your Project -> Library A -> Library B
```

- `Impact`

  - Increased complexity
  - Version conflicts

- `Mitigation Strategies`
  - Use a package manager (e.g., npm, yarn) to manage
  - Use a lock file (e.g., package-lock.json) to ensure consistency

## Q What is `package.lock.json` & its `importance`?

A. ## package-lock.json: A Crucial Dependency Manager
**package-lock.json** is an automatically generated file in Node.js projects that records the exact versions of all installed packages and their dependencies. It's essential for maintaining consistent project environments across different machines and developers.

### Importance of package-lock.json:

- **Dependency Locking:** Ensures that every developer or CI/CD system installs the exact same versions of dependencies, preventing inconsistencies and potential issues.
- **Reproducibility:** Guarantees that the project can be rebuilt identically in different environments.
- **Improved Installation Speed:** Speeds up subsequent installations by storing detailed information about installed packages.
- **Dependency Tree Management:** Provides a clear representation of the project's dependency tree, including transitive dependencies.

**Key Points:**

- Always commit `package-lock.json` to your version control system.
- Avoid manually editing `package-lock.json`. Use `npm install` or `yarn install` to modify dependencies.

## Q What is the difference between `package.json` and `package-lock.json`?

A: `package.json` is a metadata file for your Node.js project. It contains various information about your project, such as its name, version, description, entry points, scripts, and most importantly, the list of dependencies required for your project to function. Dependencies are listed along with their specified versions or version ranges.

Developers typically manage the dependencies in the dependencies and devDependencies sections of the package.json file. The dependencies section lists the packages that your application needs to run, while the devDependencies section lists packages that are only required during development, such as testing frameworks or build tools.

package.json also includes scripts that can be executed using the npm (Node Package Manager) or yarn commands. These scripts can be used for tasks like running tests, building the application, or starting a development server.

`package-lock.json` is a file generated by npm (or yarn) that provides a detailed, deterministic, and reproducible description of the exact versions of the dependencies installed in your project. It includes information about the versions of the dependencies, their dependencies (sub-dependencies), and the specific commit hashes or references for those versions. This helps ensure that your project uses the same dependency versions across different environments and installations.

The purpose of package-lock.json is to prevent what is known as the "dependency hell." This occurs when multiple developers or environments use slightly different versions of dependencies, leading to inconsistencies and unexpected behaviors in the application.

## Q What is node_modules? Is it a good idea to push that on git?

A: `node_modules` is a directory that is automatically created by Node.js and npm (Node Package Manager) when you install dependencies for your project. It contains all the packages (dependencies) that your project relies on. These packages can range from libraries that provide various functionalities to tools used for the development, testing, and building of your application.

The `node_modules` directory can become quite large, especially for projects with many dependencies. It contains all the code and files needed to make the external packages work within your project. Because of its size and the fact that it can be generated from the package.json and package-lock.json files, it's generally not considered a good practice to include the node_modules directory in your version control system (e.g., Git).

## Q What is the `dist` folder?

A: The `dist` folder, short for "distribution," is a commonly used directory in software development projects. It's typically used to store the final, compiled, or minified version of your code that is ready for deployment or distribution to end-users. The contents of the dist folder are often optimized for performance, stripped of unnecessary files, and compressed to reduce file size.

## Q What is `browserlists`?

A: `browserslist` is a configuration file and query syntax used by various front-end tools and libraries to define which browsers and browser versions your project should support. This configuration helps tools like autoprefixer, Babel, and others determine which browser-specific prefixes and transformations to apply to your CSS and JavaScript code, ensuring compatibility with a specified range of browsers.

When you set up a browserslist configuration, you're essentially specifying the minimum browser versions that your project should be compatible with. This helps automate the process of adding vendor prefixes and applying code transformations that ensure your web application looks and behaves consistently across different browsers.

```
last 2 versions
> 1%
not dead
```

In this example, the configuration indicates that your project should support the last two versions of all major browsers, any browser with a usage share of more than 1%, and browsers that are not considered "dead" (i.e., no longer actively used).

## Q Read about dif bundlers: vite, webpack, parcel

A: `Vite`, `Webpack`, and `Parcel` are all popular bundlers used in modern web development to manage assets, bundle code, and optimize projects for production. Each of these bundlers has its own strengths, use cases, and features. Let's briefly look at each of them:

`Vite`:
Vite is a relatively new build tool that focuses on speed and developer experience. It was designed to be a faster alternative to traditional bundlers like Webpack. Vite leverages ES modules and relies on native browser imports during development, which results in rapid hot module replacement (HMR) and quicker build times.

### Key features:

Ultra-fast development with instant HMR.
Supports Vue.js and React, with plans to expand to other frameworks.
No need for bundling during development, as it serves unbundled code directly.
Optimized for smaller production bundles.
Simplified configuration compared to Webpack.

`Webpack`:
Webpack is one of the most widely used bundlers in the JavaScript ecosystem. It's highly configurable and offers a robust set of features for bundling, code splitting, asset management, and more. While Webpack's configuration can be complex, it provides a powerful solution for projects of all sizes.

### Key features:

Highly customizable and configurable.
Supports code splitting and dynamic imports for optimizing performance.
Integrates well with various plugins and loaders.
Widely adopted and well-documented.
Can handle a wide range of use cases, from small projects to large-scale applications.

`Parcel`:
Parcel is an easy-to-use, zero-config bundler that aims to simplify the build process. It automates many tasks and requires minimal configuration. It's a great choice for quick prototyping, smaller projects, or beginners who want to get started quickly without delving into complex configurations.

### Key features:

Zero-config setup; no manual configuration required.
Supports various asset types out of the box (HTML, CSS, JavaScript, images, etc.).
Built-in support for hot module replacement.
Suitable for simple projects and fast prototyping.
Provides a simple command-line interface.

## Q What is `~`(tilde) and `^`(caret) in package versions?

A. In package versioning, the format 1.2.3 follows the Semantic Versioning (SemVer) standard. Each number represents a specific level of change:

- Major (1): Indicates incompatible API changes.
- Minor (2): Introduces new functionality without breaking existing code.
- Patch (3): Addresses bug fixes and security patches.

In package.json, the **`~(tilde) and ^(caret) symbols are used to specify version ranges for dependencies`**`. They control how updates are handled when you run npm install or yarn install.

| Feature               | **`~(tilde)`**                  | **`^(caret)`**                   |
| --------------------- | ------------------------------- | -------------------------------- |
| **`Allowed Updates`** | Patch-level                     | Patch-level and minor-level      |
| **`Example`**         | ~1.2.3 (matches 1.2.0 to 1.2.9) | ^1.2.3 (matches 1.2.3 to <2.0.0) |

## Q Read about Script types in html (MDN Docs)

A: The term `Script types` in the context of HTML refers to the attribute type used in the <script> element. This attribute specifies the MIME type of the script, which helps the browser understand how to interpret and execute the script code.

Here's a brief overview of how the type attribute is used with <script> elements:
JavaScript (text/javascript): This is the most common value used for the type attribute. It indicates that the content of the <script> element is JavaScript code. However, starting from HTML5, you can omit the type attribute altogether for JavaScript, as browsers assume it's JavaScript by default.

### Example:

```
<script>
    // JavaScript code here
</script>
```

`Module Script (module)`: This value is used to indicate that the script is a JavaScript module, which allows you to use features like import and export to organize your code into reusable modules. Modules are loaded asynchronously and have a different scope compared to traditional scripts.

### Example:

```
<script type="module">
    import { functionName } from './module.js';
    // JavaScript module code here
</script>
```
